The End - CS50
This is Fall 2024 of CS50 at Harvard College. Looking for Spring 2025 ?
This was CS50
Harvard College
Fall 2024
Search
nav" data-bs-toggle="collapse">
Menu
CS50.courses
CS50.ai
Ed Discussion
Gradescope
Visual Studio Code
Week 0 Scratch
Week 1 C
Week 2 Arrays
Week 3 Algorithms
Week 4 Memory
Week 5 Data Structures
Week 6 Python
Week 7 SQL
Week 8 HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Week 9 Flask
Week 10 The End
Artificial Intelligence
Announcements
FAQs
Final Project
Office Hours
Problem Sets
Sections
Seminars
Staff
Study Buddies
Syllabus
CS50 Manual Pages
CS50 Status Page
The End
Recap
Looking Ahead
Thank You!
Summing Up
Recap
Over these past ten weeks, you have been drinking from the proverbial firehose.
While in this course, you learned how to program many programming languages; indeed, our great hope is that you learned how to program in all, regardless of the programming language.
Consider back to the beginning of the course when you worked on Mario: You have come so far and have gained so many skills.
You should measure your success as the delta between your skill at the start of the course versus your skill now at the end of the course.
Further, we hope that you learned how to solve problems above all else, how to take input, process it through an algorithm, and produce some output. To that point, we played a game where we drew a picture using verbal instructions.
Notice how some verbal instructions were higher level and others were lower level , like the different programming languages utilized in this course.
Notice how some instructions were more specific than others. Remember times when you had to refine your code to do exactly as you wanted.
Also, notice how some instructions were abstracted away, like draw arms . This is similar to how we abstracted away code into functions.
Looking at all the weeks of the course, you gathered tools and built skills. Above all, though, you learned how to teach yourself.
Your final project is your opportunity to build a project, using these skills, that is of your specification and design. We hope you will join us for the CS50 Hackathon , an epic all-nighter wherein we work together on our final projects.
Looking Ahead
As you journey from the work of this course to the world outside CS50, you may want to take a number of steps to prepare and adventure out.
Journeying on, download and learn about VS Code.
To be able to execute commands on the terminal, much like you did on CS50.dev , install command-line tools on your Mac or PC .
Learn more about Git .
Host a website using GitHub or Netlify .
If applicable, host a web app using AWS , Azure , or Google Cloud .
Ask questions in relevant online communities.
Ask questions using AI-based tools like ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot .
Take any of our other CS50 courses .
Join one of our many communities .
Thank You!
Thank you for engaging in this course!
Many people made this course possible. Thank you for making this course possible and for supporting us so well!
Summing Up
In this lesson, we reflected on your journey through this course. Specifically, we encourage you to…
Take the programming skills you learned in this course to solve problems in the world.
Take the new skills you acquired in this course and continue your learning!
Finish strong and submit your final project.
Quack!
This was CS50!
Close